(QUESTION - 1) Explain the money flow and the information flow in the acquirer market and the role of the main players.

ANSWER) 

Money flow and information flow in the acquirer market can be broadly classified into two categories.
(a) The Player View  (b) The Step View.

-> The Player View - There are five main players who take part in any card transaction, namely - Consumer, Merchant, Acquirer or Acquiring Bank, 
                     Issuer or Issuing Bank, Payment Processor, or Gateway.

                     FLOW (.) A consumer buys goods or services from a Merchant and provides his/her credit card information.
                          (.) The Merchant relays the credit card information to an Acquirer to check and validate for funds and other information. The Merchant 
                              can also choose a Payment Gateway to connect to an Acquirer.
                          (.) The Acquirer communicates with the Issuer using a card association physical network to check if funds are available on the consumer's card.
                          (.) The Issuer checks the consumer's credit line and sets aside the funds needed for the payment.

-> The Step View - There are seven steps implemented for the money to transfer, namely - Card Authentication, Card Authorization, Authorization Reversal,
                    Settlement, Credits, Chargebacks, and Representment.

                    FLOW (.) Card Authentication checks a credit card number using a series of checks to see if the number provided is valid or not. 
                             Usually, a MOD 10 check is performed.
                         (.) Card Authorization includes reserving funds by a communication flow mentioned above where a merchant requests acquirer 
                             who in turns requests the issuer for a fund check on the consumer's credit line.
                         (.) If the purchase is declined or some other error occurs while transacting, the authorization is reversed.
                         (.) A Settlement request is where the money actually gets transferred from the consumer to the merchant after Authentication 
                             and Authorization are completed.
                         (.) Credit refers to a refund of money in case the consumer's returns the goods and services back to the merchant, a request 
                             triggered back using the same payment method to the acquirer and the issuer.
                         (.) In case a chargeback is filed by a consumer, the issuer asks for additional documentation to prove if the transaction is valid 
                             or not, and both the merchant and consumers are expected to prove a valid transaction.

            Example of Credit Card Association - VISA, Mastercard, American Express, etc.
            Examples of Acquirers - Rede, ICICI, Axis, Cielo, InfinitePay, etc.
            Examples of Issuers - A Bank or a financial institution.
            Examples of Payment Gateway or Processor - Razorpay, Stripe, Juspay, etc.

            All these institutions operate under the PCI DSS regulations.


(QUESTION - 2) Explain the difference between acquirer, sub-acquirer, and payment gateway and how the flow explained in question 1 changes for these players.

ANSWER)

(a) Acquirer - A Financial Institution that processes credit and debit card transactions on behalf of the card issuer.
(b) Sub Acquirer - An Institution similar to Acquirer but is non-autonomous due to lack of proper rights of processing transactions. In layman's terms, 
                   it processes transactions and transmits the data to other players in the payment flow.
(c) Payment Gateway - A bridge between the acquirer and the consumer/merchant that transmits credit information to the acquirer and receives transactions 
                      information from the acquirer.

According to the flow mentioned above, an Acquirer is an integral part of the network because they are the bridge between card networks, issuers, and the 
consumers/merchants. A Payment Gateway can be used by a merchant to securely transmit information to the Acquirer and receive information from the acquirer 
and other information, it forms an intermediary for secure transactions. A sub-acquirer is an optional institution that can be used in the payment flow as 
an additional node for further processing and security.


(QUESTION - 3) Explain what chargebacks are, how they differ from cancellations, and what is their connection with fraud in the acquiring world.

ANSWER)

A Chargeback often known as a Payment dispute occurs when a cardholder files a dispute over a transaction and requests the card-issuing bank for payment reversal.

Chargebacks often include a long procedure of validation and proof and the funds are held with the issuer until the dispute is resolved. Merchants are 
notified of the dispute by the acquirer or the payment processor and the issuer is ultimately responsible to solve the dispute.

Cancellations refer to canceling a payment before it is settled or any funds are exchanged between accounts. Cancellations usually do not involve any 
disputes or problems and are a part of the natural flow of payment.

Chargebacks are usually related to potential frauds because most of the time when a chargeback is filed a fraud is at play, meaning a consumer has 
unidentified transactions with a merchant without his/her knowledge. This can be done by an adversary or a breach in the system. Therefore, a lot of 
acquirers and issuers are weighing down on fraud preventions techniques to minimize frauds and chargebacks because they hinder the payment process 
and cause disputes.
